Session summaries launch post (#13900)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/how-we-built-user-behavior-analysis-with-multi-modal-llms-in-5-not-so-easy-steps.mdx

---
date: "2025-12-02"
title: 'How we built user behavior analysis with multi-modal LLMs in 5 not-so-easy steps'
author:
  - alex-lebedev
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/519290681_b3c074ed_f976_4e91_8c37_498387c9dbe1_a48312c745.png
featuredImageType: Organizing fantastic amounts of data
featuredImageCaption: todo-add-caption
category: PostHog news
tags:
- Product updates
- Startups
---

# How we built user behavior analysis with multimodal LLMs in 5 not-so-easy steps

> We, at PostHog, have a lot of user behavior data - what pages they visit, what buttons they click, and so on, stored as sessions. And by "a lot," I mean billions of events and terabytes of S3 snapshots. We and our customers love watching these sessions to understand how the product is used. However, there's an obvious problem - too many user sessions to watch manually. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostHog captures a lot of user behavior data — the pages people visit, the buttons they click, and everything in between, all captured as sessions. By “a lot,” I mean billions of events and terabytes of S3 snapshots. Watching those sessions is incredibly useful for understanding how products are actually used, but there’s an obvious problem: there are far too many to review manually.
```

So, we created a tool to watch and analyze user sessions. It highlights the issues - so you can find what's broken without watching hundreds of hours of recordings yourself. It's called Session summaries, **we release it in beta today**. You can use it right now, for free, with PostHog AI.

> In this post, I'll walk through step by step what we learned, where we messed up, and lots of practical tips on how to make user behavior analysis work in production. All the code is open-source, and here's a 36-second [demo](https://res.cloudinary.com/sortafreel/video/upload/v1764510391/minivied-v2_onrxvy.mov) of how it works:

Author: Updated.

**Our approach:**

- As stupid as it sounds, we process the data for the entire session in one large call, so the LLM has full context.
- If you must segment, do it in one step, and then provide the context on all segments to each parallel call. Lots of context for the current segment, minimal context for the previous/next segments to keep LLM grounded.
- Hope that users are ok with waiting for a couple of minutes. Using faster models (like OpenAI `nano` ones) can allow streaming the summary after 10-15s, but thinking models on "high" provide better results quality-wise, and quality is the goal.

![Single session summary](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/Clean_Shot_2025_11_29_at_21_20_57_fb0e292e9d.png)
> _Here's how you can get a summary of a single session from chat, or Replay player_

### Crying wolf effect

Fast-growing products (startups specifically) have a bad habit of generating lots of exceptions, especially frontend ones. LLM sees them, panics, and generates a summary of the session in which the user completely failed on all their goals. In reality, the user successfully got what they came for and didn't even notice these exceptions.

> **Our approach:**

Reviewer 2: Again, doesn't need to be  a list. Also, the tense is weird here - "it won't help us anyway" implies a past tense statement, but this is written in the present. I'd switch to "We tried..." and then "It didn't help." (the shorter sentence is also punchier, adds a little to the humour)

Author: Agree, updated.

- We programmatically pre-filter events that look like exceptions, especially if one causes multiple others as an avalanche, and they create a context that LLM can't ignore. For example, drop all JS exceptions that aren't API errors.
- It won't save us anyway (Check Step 2).

## Step 2: See what the user sees

Even with noise reduction, the core problem remained: we couldn't be sure whether the issues the LLM highlighted actually affected users. A TypeError in logs looks scary, but if a retry succeeded in 200ms - the user never noticed. Since we have lots of snapshots, we can generate videos of the sessions and see what the user saw.

![Video validation](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/video_validatio_6d1a0375aa.jpeg)

When the single-session summary flags something as a "blocking error" - an exception that supposedly prevented the user from completing their goal - we don't trust it blindly. Instead, we:

- Generate a ~10-second video clip, starting a couple of seconds before the flagged event
- Send the clip to a multi-modal LLM to transcribe the video
- Confirm or deny the issue, and update the summary

> And it works pretty well. But it also leads to the question: why not use only video? Why use events at all?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And it works pretty well, but it raises the question: why not use only the session recording? Why use events at all?
```

However, let's try basic math, using numbers from now (end of 2025). 

- One frame of video at a good-enough resolution costs 258 Gemini Flash tokens. 
- If `1 frame per second * 60 seconds in a minute * 60 minutes in a hour * 258 tokens = 929k tokens`. 
- Meaning, analyzing just one large-ish session already costs a million tokens. 

We can even use lighter models and lower resolutions, but at some point, the quality drop is too much. Also, these models are this cheap because they aren't exactly clever. We can ask it to transcribe what's on the screen, but it won't be able to make meaningful conclusions on the whole journey. So, either we need to use a much more expensive model from the start, or we need another model to analyze transcription afterward.

**Our approach:**

- Don't analyze the whole video - there are at least 40-50-60% of inactivity that we can skip, and pay to transcribe only parts where the user did something. Though we need either events or snapshots to find these parts.
- Don't analyze all the videos - there's a clear set of parameters (like event count, or active duration) that can be used to decide if it's worthwhile to check this session.

> ### Videos are heavy (part two)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Videos are _really_ heavy
```

**Our approach:**

- We limit 1 example per session per pattern. So, if the report says "happened 15 times," you can be sure it happened in 15 different sessions, not one user rage-clicking the same broken button.
- We calculate detailed pattern statistics: occurrence count, affected sessions, percentage of total, and severity
- The default report shows only issues with blocking errors by default, but you can show other types if you want to dig deeper

### Patterns need to be verifiable

Extracting patterns is only half the job. If users can't verify that the patterns are real, they won't trust the report. "Users experience checkout timeouts" is useful. "Users experience checkout timeouts - here are 5 specific sessions where it happened, with timestamps and video clips" is actionable.

To make it work, we needed a way to easily display the whole story to the user and give them the tools to validate the issue themselves. So we did.

**Our approach:**

> - We display not just the issue, but also the segment that the issue was part of, what happened before the issue, and what happened after

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We display not just the issue, but also the segment that the issue was part of, what happened before the issue, and what happened after.
```

![Issue example](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/Clean_Shot_2025_11_29_at_21_01_27_26a86978c8.png)

## Step 4: Make it work reliably

Now we have a pipeline that works  across 100 sessions: single-session summaries → video validation → pattern extraction → pattern enrichment. The problem? It's fragile. If the whole thing falls apart because of one bad response, the feature is unusable.

To make it more predictable, we use Temporal workflows, with each workflow spawning hundreds of atomic and easily retriable activities, so we’ll get a proper result - sooner or later.

![Temporal logic](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/Clean_Shot_2025_11_29_at_20_52_52_3177a60a33.png)
> __Temporal workflow logic on a small sample of sessions__

### Expect every one of the LLM calls to fail

We're making ~150-200 LLM calls per a single report, any of which can (and often will) fail. Timeouts, rate limits, malformed responses, hallucinations, and lots of other creative reasons my human mind isn’t capable of predicting. Treating every such failure as fatal means the feature never works in production.

**Our approach:**

> - We set failure thresholds instead of failing on the first error. Each stage allows ~20-25% of requests to fail (after exceeding the retries), so the process can move on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We set failure thresholds instead of stopping at the first error. Each stage lets roughly 20–25% of requests fail (even after retries) so the process can keep moving.
```

- If it’s an isolated step (like a single session summary that can be used as-is), we use DB. 
- If it’s an intermediate step (like pattern extraction), we use Redis. 
- The main logic is “will it change the result if I add one more session to the input?”

![Basic retry logic](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/2dc9059b_5887_4ae1_9cd2_e03da961609f_6b45fa47be.jpeg)

### “Phenomenal cosmic power, ity bity living space”

Temporal is amazing for orchestrating complex workflows, but it has limits. Event history size is capped at around 2MB. When we tried to use it as-is, we hit the limit even before making a single LLM call, just by getting the data to analyze from the DB (an obvious anti-pattern).

Redis, as a stateful bridge, provides plenty of opportunities for workarounds. Firstly, we can store all the intermediate steps there without the need to calculate space (and just pass the keys). Secondly, we use Redis to stream the progress, LLM calls, combined data, and whatever else we want, with great latency.

**Our approach:**

- Clear Redis TTLs (24 hours tops), as even with seemingly unlimited memory, we slow it down significantly if not paying attention.

> - Gzip compression for everything (on the input/output)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Gzip compression for everything (on the input/output).
```

> - If storing in the DB, the Redis step is skipped explicitly to avoid duplicating data for nothing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If storing in the DB, the Redis step is skipped explicitly to avoid duplicating data for nothing.
```

## Step 5: Ship the beta, learn, iterate (We are here)

The beta of Session summaries has been released and is available to everyone right now. So, if you want to check our findings above, give it a try. Just ask PostHog AI to summarise your sessions. Worst case: you’ll notice where we messed up. Best case: you’ll learn something useful about your users and your product.

> **What the feature can do:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**What Session Summaries can do:**
```
